As much as we hate to admit it,
we've all set goals that haven't exactly worked out.
Even if we have a great plan,
life can get busy,
and we can lose our motivation to keep going.
So, why is it so hard to stick to our goals
and how can we overcome the obstacles?
First, let's take a look at why goals get off track.
To start, our goals can get off track
because our environments might be counterproductive.
For example,
if you want to quit smoking,
but are living with someone who smokes,
then you'll find it much harder to quit.
You're surrounded by constant reminders and cravings.
Second, we can rely too heavily on motivation.
No matter how much we want something,
we won't always feel motivated to do
what it takes to get there.
And so, if motivation is the only thing driving you to act,
you won't get very far.
Third, we can lose faith in ourselves.
If your self image contradicts your goal,
then you'll develop more excuses for
why you can't than reasons for why you can.
Finally,
we can get caught in the friction of starting.
Often, it's not so much the work that's hard,
but the effort it takes to start that work.
And that causes us to give into procrastination,
choosing instant rewards over long-term goals.
As the roadblocks prove,
staying on track with your goals
is just as much about the goals you set
as it is about the actions you take,
what you do every day matters.
So, what can you do to overcome the obstacles
and stick to your goals?
First, align your environment with your goals.
Ask yourself,
"What visual cues do I need to aid my goal?"
Then do some pre-planning and build that space.
For example,
if your goal is to drink eight glasses of water a day,
then keeping a jug of water on your desk will help.
Second, create commitment devices.
Commitment devices require making plans
so that you lock in future behaviors.
For example,
if you want to learn a new language,
sign up for classes that require in-person attendance.
Third, create identity-based habits.
This technique curbs negative self-talk
by encouraging you to fake it until you make it.
You define who you want to be,
and then follow habits that align with that identity.
When setting goals,
we tend to think about results,
but by taking that a step further and considering
who you need to be to reach those outcomes,
you can start to repeat behaviors,
strengthen your beliefs,
and prove to yourself that you can do this.
Finally, practice habit stacking,
which involves two steps.
First, make a list of some habits you already follow,
such as making your bed in the morning
and brushing your teeth.
Then, think about a new goal you want to implement
and add that activity to your preexisting habit.
For example,
you might say,
"After I brush my teeth,
I'll journal for 20 minutes."
This strategy is effective because it links a goal
to something you already do,
making it an excellent trick
if you're having trouble getting started.
Sticking to your goals isn't easy.
However, despite the roadblocks,
there are tips you can follow.
So, remember the strategies,
focus on aligning your identity,
environment, and habits with your goals
and make the right daily choices.
That way you won't just set goals,
you'll stick to them as well.